1.	Development of Machine Translation Software for automatic translation of English Text to ISL Synthetic animations.
2.	Development of Plagiarism Detection Software for Hindi texts.
3.	HMM Based Punjabi Chunker
4.	Development of English-Punjabi Parallel Corpus and its management tool
5.	Automatic Question Generation System for Punjabi
6.	English↔Punjabi Machine Transliteration System
7.	Automatic Extraction of MWEs from English-Punjabi Parallel Corpus
8.	Development of Text Prediction System for Somali Language
9.	Development of Text Prediction System for Amrahic Language
10.	SMT Post Editing System for SMT Based Hindi to Punjabi MT System
11.	Development of Hindi to Punjabi Machine Translation System using Statistical Approach.
12.	Quantitative analysis of websites developed in Hindi and Punjabi.
13.	Development of a system for translating Technical Hindi text into Punjabi.
14.	Development of Plagiarism Detection Software for Punjabi texts.
15.	Computerization of Research Cell, Punjabi University, Patiala
16.	Computerization of Alumni Association, Punjabi University, Patiala
17.	Computerization of Board Of Studies Meeting Process, Department of Computer Science, Punjabi University, Patiala.
18.	Department of Computer Science Website
19.	Department of Computer Science Placement Cell
20.	Developed Hindi to Punjabi Machine Translation System with an accuracy of about 90% available online for use at website http://h2p.learnpunjabi.org. Copyrighted in 2011.
21.	Automatic Sentence Alignment Of Bilingual Parallel Corpora For Hindi-Punjabi Language
22.	Extraction of Collocations in Hindi Text Corpus
23.	Hindi Morphological analyzer and generator (Windows Based)
24.	Extracting Proverb From Hindi Text And Translating it into Punjabi Text
25.	Hindi to Punjabi Transliteration System
26.	Development of Algorithm for Sandhi Viched of Compound Hindi Words.
27.	Development of N-Gram Algorithm solution for Hindi Word Sense Disambiguation
28.	Development Of An Algorithm For Unsupervised Learning Of Morphology For Hindi Language
29.	Development of Algorithm for Hindi Text Normalization
30.	Development of algorithm for extracting Named Entities from Hindi Text
31.	Development of Font Converter for Non Unicode Hindi text to Unicode Encoding and reverse
32.	Development of Improved Algorithm for Automatic Word Alignment for Hindi-Punjabi Parallel Corpus
33.	Development of Hindi-Punjabi Parallel Corpus using existing Hindi to Punjabi Machine Translation System
34.	Development of Name Entity Recognition System for Hindi Corpus 
35.	Development of Sentiment analyzer for Punjabi.
36.	Development of Punjabi to English transliteration system for common nouns.
37.	Development of a system for extracting Hindi Proverbs from Hindi text and translating in Punjabi.
38.	Development of Hindi Stemmer (Windows Based) for handling OOV words in Hindi to Punjabi MT System
39.	Development of Hindi text automatic Font Identification and converting it into Unicode.
40.	Development of Extracting Named Entities from Urdu text.
41.	Development of Hindi POS Tagger (Windows based)
42.	Development of Urdu to Punjabi Machine Translation System using hybrid approach.
43.	Development of Software for Converting Text to ISL video for deaf and dumb persons.
